# Process Journal
## Tiny Game - 01.23.2025
### "A Trip to the Store"
One thing I knew when starting the tiny game assignment was that I couldn’t allow myself to overthink it. I knew with too many options, I would get overwhelmed. I avoided looking at examples provided and chose the first game engine I remembered being mentioned - Bitsy. Again avoiding looking at other’s creations, I started by watching a simple 5-minute tutorial and got right into it.

My initial idea was to create a memory game, where you go shopping with a list of items, and you must choose the correct ones. Choosing the wrong item could lead to… strange circumstances. I also knew I wanted to have multiple endings. My first challenge was figuring out how to incorporate a visual shopping list. With Bitsy’s limited UI and each tile being so small, I had a bit of trouble figuring this out. My solution was having the wizard (the character that gives you the initial quest to go shopping) “conjure” images of the items you need in the starting room. This allowed me to have a visual representation of the images and forced users to try to memorize each one.

Another challenge I had, less related to the game mechanics, was Bitsy’s limited color palette and tile size. While I am familiar with pixel art - and quite enjoy it - I have never attempted to make a game at this small of a resolution, with only three colors. It pushed me out of my comfort zone creatively, and I’m really happy with how it turned out.

Once I overcame these challenges, Bitsy was quite easy to use. I used their room system to set up the different levels of the store. The player must choose the right item out of many similar items to move to the next room, and if they choose wrong, they get to meet the cult that haunts the grocery store in 1 of 3 rooms, each getting creepier as the player progresses. If the player enters cult room 2, they find a note discussing their next sacrifice. With this note, if the player warns the next sacrifice, the player replaces them. If the player however chooses to ignore the sacrifice, they leave the store safe, with an eerie feeling that something is wrong.

This assignment really pushed me to stop over-thinking, over-planning, and over-analyzing the process of game-making and to simply make something. It was super cool playing all the games by my classmates, and I was especially interested in other game made with Bitsy. It was super neat seeing how they interpreted the software and how different our games were.
